Hey guys welcome back.
So we're learning about video marketing right.
That's what the section is all about.
Well here's an important question.
You need to ask yourself before you even watch the rest of the lectures.
We have like 20 lectures or so and it's going to take a certain amount of your time.
I think this is a question that you should address way before you even first try to make your first
video.
Now of course it is part of your content strategy and York on marketing efforts in general.
Do you need video.
Yes actually that is the question.
Do you need a video keyword being need.
Now I honestly couldn't care less if you're watching this video and you say I don't need video for my
business because that's actually pretty common.
Not everyone watching is going to find video worthwhile.
You can try it.
You can try to force it and to really shoehorn it into your larger marketing strategy to get your 500
customers.
But for some businesses it just doesn't make sense.
Also video is a lot of work.
What's the way of work.
It's one thing to write a blog post that you can easily get someone on the other side of the world to
do.
But coming up with a video idea planning it shooting it actually editing it putting it together and
then promoting it.
That's quite a bit of that a lot of effort you don't have to figure out a lot of new software you're
going to figure out how video equipment works.
You have to learn things like the difference between scripting for talking into a video and scripting
for a blog video just takes a lot more time than other types of content you create.
I mean if you write well for instance you could probably rock out a whole bunch of blog posts in the
time it takes to create one video.
But of course there are many reasons why people go through this extra effort to create videos and that's
because video is the most visually engaging format you will find kind of touch this.
The Last Lecture.
No that's no exaggeration.
Well you know except for maybe like for video you know those movie theaters you put on the glasses and
you know they like pulp and the smells and everything feels like it's coming at you.
And of course there's also virtual reality and augmented reality.
But besides those it's the most engaging.
Anyway the video if you ask someone if they'd rather read something or watch something well I bet more
people would say video.
I don't know.
I mean you might get mixed results because there's always seems some sticklers out there that would
rather read things to me highly dependent on demographics and what topic it is.
But without asking if you started up a video in front of all of those same people I bet Otterson of
them would at least watch the first section of it doesn't matter if the written version is right in
front of them.
Human nature will force everyone's attention to go to the screen with the video and sound is playing.
Now that proven ability to capture people's attention is why so many marketers are jumping on the video
bandwagon or at least trying.
And while the data really does support it.
The video gets crazy results that prior to video you probably could never have imagined the video to
a page.
For instance this is what the data says.
It is 53 times more likely to be on the first Rozel on a kugel search.
I'm not even mad.
It's amazing.
Yes fifty three times more likely.
So if getting a page found on your Web site is important.
Video could be a pretty big catalyst.
Here is another stat that blows my mind.
The video to a page it also increases the conversions just generically speaking by 70 to 80 percent.
Now Kernighan is always the come in all different flavors like registration inquiries downloads and
obviously sales.
My favorite types of video marketing are product videos and they can be especially powerful when you're
trying to sell a product on a page.
I just see a blank piece of text telling me how great this TV is or whatever it is I'm looking to buy
or I see a video of someone using it and then talking about it.
Chances are the video is more convincing.
So those are just a few key benefits of video.
But when it comes down to actually diving in and creating video projects you still need to know if it's
feasible specifically for you and your project regardless of what industry data might say about the
benefits.
Is video going to work for you.
So when you ask yourself we need video or not.
The way you answer this is by answering some other questions first.
Now number one would it be easier for your audience to read your content rather than watch it in a video.
Now this isn't an all or nothing question.
You're not going to do all video but you might do all text and pictures.
Plenty of people do.
However there might be certain kinds of posts that if made into a video would do a better job of telling
the story or describing a process.
So would video be easier in those cases if you have a blog and your style is to write short stories.
Probably not.
Video is not going to work there but if you're doing case studies on a client well then video can help
because you can have them talk into a camera and then tell the story.
The second thing you need to ask yourself is can you afford the cost of producing videos now.
Sure.
Many people make their money back.
In fact the status something like 76 percent of businesses invest in video recoup their costs.
But there's still a costs regardless of if you're buying software running equipment or even hiring freelance
crews help you produce a video.
Some of you out there can't afford these expenses and that is fine.
You need to be honest with yourself about it.
You could produce your own videos on the cheap using a laptop webcam or your iPhone but obviously the
quality there is going to be lower than a video made with all the right equipment that's perfectly fine
but low quality video only works in certain circumstances and it kind of excludes you from making video
as a branding statement about your business or your company or even your product.
And that brings me to my next question.
Number three is can you deliver the value you want by using video now as engaging as video is is a visual
format.
It still takes talent to know how to create a video how to shoot things the right way how to make your
videos look good in the lectures I've had.
I'm going to go over all of these things.
If you're short on video knowledge you won't be for long but video might not be the medium that you
necessarily get.
Words might be way easier.
And that's also perfectly fine.
You need to obviously rely on your strengths whatever they are.
That's how we go over so many different traction channels not only need to figure out the traction channel
works for your company but you need to figure out if you're good at it.
In this case if you can't afford the right equipment and talent well then you'd be stuck trying to figure
out video production on your own.
And then again it just depends how much time you have to spend on it.
Now the fourth question I think is worth asking is do you have the time to produce the types of videos
you want now videos in general are going to take longer to produce than Blog Post and other written
content.
So do you have the time to devote to it to plan to organize a script to shoot and then edit it.
Now obviously some types of video are a lot easier if making a screencast of your product that's generally
easier but it's still going to take more time than just writing up a guide on how to do it.
And the last question I think that's worth asking is who is my audience.
OK.
Older audiences don't like video.
You have to keep this in mind.
Younger audiences are more open to it.
Does your audience actually use video to consume a lot of their information.
If you're making software and you sell the like scientific research teams do you really think they're
sitting around watching videos to figure out what equipment or what software they need to buy to run
their study.
No they're probably going to be reading articles.
So that's the last thing you really need to keep in mind.
Where does your audience hang out if they're not on YouTube if they're not checking out Facebook videos
or in general they're just not video crazy and it's not the first thing they would do and they need
to answer a question.
Well then it's maybe videos not for you.
So really what I asked is this is video the right fit for you and your audience.
And can you afford the time and cost it might take to produce said videos.
Now you might be listening these questions and thinking yes you know you're right.
Videos not for me.
But again I'm just sharing the questions you need to ask before you jump in.
I think for a lot of people deciding whether or not to do video comes down to the technical skills and
the money if you're clueless about which end of the iPhone has the camera lens.
Here's a hint.
It's both.
I mean it's OK.
You don't have to do video.
Keep on writing.
And if money is a legitimate cause for concern to well then make sure that you know you have limited
options going into it.
But I will say this.
We're going to talk about in this section how you create video on different budgets and you'd be amazed
at what you can do with a very small budget.
So if you think videos for you proceed if you're not sure.
Proceed with caution and if you're pretty sure that he is not your thing well you're not going to hurt
my feelings I'll see you in the next section.
All right guys.